I write a few lines in haste to say that I am safe--and well advanced
He was an old man who fished alone in a skiff in the Gulf Stream and he
on my voyage.  This letter will reach England by a merchantman now on
had gone eighty-four days now without taking a fish.  In the first
its homeward voyage from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who may not
forty days a boy had been with him.  But after forty days without a
see my native land, perhaps, for many years.  I am, however, in good
fish the boy's parents had told him that the old man was now definitely
spirits:  my men are bold and apparently firm of purpose, nor do the
and finally _salao_, which is the worst form of unlucky, and the boy
floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indicating the dangers
had gone at their orders in another boat which caught three good fish
of the region towards which we are advancing, appear to dismay them. We
the first week.  It made the boy sad to see the old man come in each
have already reached a very high latitude; but it is the height of
day with his skiff empty and he always went down to help him carry
summer, and although not so warm as in England, the southern gales,
either the coiled lines or the gaff and harpoon and the sail that was
which blow us speedily towards those shores which I so ardently desire
furled around the mast.  The sail was patched with flour sacks and,
to attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had not expected.
furled, it looked like the flag of permanent defeat.
No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a
The old man was thin and gaunt with deep wrinkles in the back of his
letter.  One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are
neck.  The brown blotches of the benevolent skin cancer the sun brings
accidents which experienced navigators scarcely remember to record, and
from its reflection on the tropic sea were on his cheeks.  The blotches
I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our voyage.
ran well down the sides of his face and his hands had the deep-creased
Adieu, my dear Margaret.  Be assured that for my own sake, as well as
scars from handling heavy fish on the cords.  But none of these scars
yours, I will not rashly encounter danger.
were fresh.  They were as old as erosions in a fishless desert.